# 19-09-01

## State of the authentication Panel:
 - https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/17
 - Justin: we should try to group things into projects
 - Pavlik: I would like to clarify roles and responsibilities and use terms consisistently across documentation

## HTTP Signatures
 - Self-signed strats

## Which role has which responsibility

## RS issuing its own token vs always using the token from the OP

 - zenomt: Only solid authienticates to RS with id token not intended for that RS
 - Jackson: we use old draft of PoP token, newer draft exists DPoP
 - zenomt: I think DPoP addresses different use case, also RFC 7800 only addresses establishing keys
 - zenomt: In my proposal you use PoP token to prove your identity to the resource server's authorization server, which then issues an access token
 - Jackson: in practie clients don't use expiration information on the token and will request refresh if it stops working
 - zenomt: It's more about authorization server (of resource server) being able to control validity of the token
 - Elf: There should be a use case for the resource server requirement?
     - zenomt: I've listed some security minding things. The use case is I want to be secure.
     - Zenomt will open a PR

## Allow the Implicit Flow or ban it

- Justin: we should mark implicit flow as 'at risk'
- Dmitri: not sure if there's any sense in banning it outright. We can implement it by default in our solid auth clients. And mention in the spec that the Authorization flow is preferred, and that Implicit is only supported for backwards compatibility
- Zenomt: Recommend marking it as **NOT RECOMMENDED** \[RFC2119\] for clients
- Pavlik: If OP doesn't support implicit flow, clients (apps) can't rely on it so in practice they have to implement PKCE flow if they want to work with any OP person using the app chooses


## DID Implementation
 - Dmitri ZagidulinSo: I deeeefinitely want to start a conversation on adding DID support for Solid. Specifically, for using Web-based DIDs, and specifying a compatibility/upgrade paths for moving from WebID -> DID
 - Pavlik: WebID isn't a fully accepted standard
 - Henry: I understand as DID denoting a key while WebID denotes agent
 - Dmitri Zagidulin: the only main difference from WebID Profile, is that PII (Personally Identifiable Info) is discouraged from being added to the doc directly (instead, it /links/ to that info)
 - Jackson: We may have cases where we would discourage adding personally identifiable data to WebID Document
 - Jackson: We may need to document which parts of the systems (so also implementations) get impacted by adding DID support

## Self-signed Strategies

 - Henry: In WebID-TLS authentication happens on layer below HTTP, so it also has problem with HTTP/2 and async connections, people look into adapting TLS client auth to HTTP/2
   ... UI stays build in a browser, IMO a good starting point
   ... HTTP Signatures stays more HTTP friendly, just relies on HTTP Headers to carry signature, it doesn't specify how server verifies signature, we would need to define how to discover public keys, eg. in WebID Profile
 - Dmitri: my thoughts on [HTTP Signatures](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-cavage-http-signatures-11) are: PRO - it's widely used as authentication in the Fediverse (Mastodon etc), and it's an important tool in our Solid auth toolbox. CON - Like WebID-TLS, HTTP Sig as it currently stands identifies the User /but not/ the app. (So, harder to do App Authorization). But, I think that part could be added too? Worth investigating.
 - ... agree with what Jackson just said. With App Authorization, we need to be able to both: a) identify an app instance, and b) identify the "parent" (?) app identity (like, its Github org or store page etc). (Need a better term for B, the stable app identity)

## Authentication of IoT Devices

 - Jackson: IoT Device can not pop up a web view

## Broker Pattern

- https://github.com/solid/webid-oidc-spec#differences-from-classic-openid-connect
- Pavlik: how does it differ from enabling Loging with Google on some OP?
- Jackson: person new to solid would recognize google as one's , it should not requrie any spec changes - mostly UX
- Jackson: it should only impact OP implementations, it should not impact appliactions or anything else
- Henry:  I see again issue of client needng to know which identity it shoudl use with that RS
- Dmitri: https://github.com/solid/webid-oidc-spec#differences-from-classic-openid-connect

# Executables:
 - Dmitri will write all the places that DID interacts with Solid
 - Henry will write a flow for HTTP signatures
 - Discussion will be done over Michael's proposal
 - Michael will submit a use case for resource server issued tokens
 - (Somebody - Dmitri?) To open an issue discussing use cases for multiple profiles / identities

## To Discuss Next Time:
- Offline use cases
