# 2019-11-18 Authentcation Panel

## Present

* Jackson
* Henry
* Mitzi
* Jamie
* Elf

## Issues

### [Authenticating Users #27](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/27)

#### Does User ever authenticate with Resource Server without authorizing Client they use to access resources on that RS.

 - Elf: To clarify, we talk about naming this 'Multi-rs authentication' and if we look at it closely, we only have to deal with multi resource server if we use some client. So if we directly access it with a browser, that will always access only a single resource server. So, it only comes into play when we use an applciation client. I think of it as an OAuth client. We haven't even proposed use cases where we connect directly to the server with the browser. In all the use cases we've discussed so far we have a client and the multi resource server scenario. And in that case, I see we never directly authenticate the user to the resource server. It's always delegated to the client. In all the use cases where we need the client we need to have the authentication part. The user delegates access to the client and only the client needs to be authorized. But in the multi resource scenario we don't need to authenticate the user with the resoruce server directly.
 - ...: We don't need open id connect. We only need to authorize the clients. In the multi resource server scenario, we don't need the authorization part. The whole DPoP approach might be misplaced.
 - Jackson: DPoP allows delegating access to client
 - Henry: Last week we mentioned that your browser is a client too. When you type in a username or password what you're identifying as depends on the trust system that you built up. It's true that if the app is the one that owns the keys and you're downloading the app from the internet, then those tokens can be shared very widely. You have a problem with trusting that app. If you have an auth server that you trust is giving the token to the app to authenticate. You can do the same with the authentication app because it is your trusted keychain, and then it can sign headers. So, I'm not sure why you say it's never. Are you saying the user is never being authenticated? That would mean there's never any .acls that say this resource can only be used by a certain webid. So if you're using access control what are you saying? I'm not sure where this is going.
 - Elf: It is completely fine to have user webIDs in the resource. What I'm trying to point out is that the user delegates access to an app. So the authorization is asking for which user has access. So even if you're using an in browser client. We never need just the authentication of the user. We just need to authorization. The access to multiple resource server already requires authentication.
 - Jackson: should we eliminate DPoP
 - Elf: In multi-RS scenario we don't have authentication without authorization.
 - Jackson: we still need authentication for multiRS scenario. even if we don't include authorization.
 - Elf: In what case do you see multi resource server interaction that does not require authorizing the client. 
 - Henry: I see authorization as what the server does to give access to resources. And then the user authenticates in one way or another to try to fit the access control rules that it knows are going to be permitted. Firstly, I can disagree that it always goes through the app. It's possible that you can imagine a situation where you have a launcher app that is trusted. And that's not very idfferent from the browser authenticating. It's possible to have a secure app that authenticates you. I'm not sure how oauth can work on the multi resource. It's really multi-domain. How is oauth going to know without reading the access control rules? 
 - Jackson: IdP issues the token, client aguements it and sends it to RS. Different agumentend toeken to each RS.
 - Elf: I understand that henry comes back to the use case where the person can select the persona it uses. So the person can choose who he acts as. Henry would like some kind of feature where you can detect the persona you use. I don't think that people aim to support that. I don't know if anyone else besides Henry has that as a requirement. Also, the app launcher proposal is very different from OAuth2. It's not the OAuth2 approach. I also don't see how it would work with services in the cloud. I have my client app somewhere and it could do some kind of video transcoding. It would need to delegate access without the client existing. I could be sleeping and access would still need to be delegated. I think instead we could build on top of OAuth's technique as long as we say we never have multi-resource. We need to acknowledge that there should always be some client that the user delegates access to. Whether that is an in browser client, or something in the cloud. 
- Henry: We want OAuth to be linked data, oauth server can publish what it does. We need AS to store which client can do which things etc. I see it as turning OAuth into linked data application. You can take OAuth token and get JSON back from it (JWT). When you build decentralized system you endup with linked data.
- Jackson: Capabilities vs. Identity based authorization. I think we need both of them as complementary approaches.
- Elf: So for some history: initially Solid started with WebID TLS. It didn't have authorization just authentication. A person would get an in browser pop up for a certificate. There was no way to give a certain subset of access to a client. Without your knowledge a client could access things in the background. It wasn't used in browser. In a way I see webid oidc as being able to complement TLS. Given that, I see that now we have this new requirement that we actually do want to have a clear way of controlling what kind of access a user delegates to a specific client. So, I do think we need a common authorization vocabulary. It clearly descirbes how a user delegates a subset of this identity to an application. The user would use a consent screen for any client they want to use. Which represents a user delegating access to a client. But there is this kind of need to have authorization rules interoperable. So I didn't say at any point that we do not need some kind of linked database. In the multi-resource scenario we need some kind of client for the user to authenticate to.

### Questions Launcher App
- Jackson: Elf mentioned earlier applications that need to operate offline on my behalf. How does Launcer App handle that?
- Henry: You give this other app a key, not sure I was thinking inside of the browser. Now we move to the OS, different domain.
- Jackson: Would you build Launcher App on OS level?
- Henry: We would have keychain application that is trusted, can access keys etc. I see it as reasonable thing to do. No reason for some applications to run headless. User may need to authorize it explicitly as 'headless app acting on my behalf'. I see it as open to think about.
- ...: How this offline scenario is different from..., we can put it up in the Launcher App issue to think about it.
 - Elf: What advantages do you see over building on oauth 2.
 - Henry: You don't have to go over the server. You have something in your browser to sign for you. OAuth2 server could maybe do the HTTP request and keep cache. Launcher App allows you to authenticate very quickly for each request. It can handle all the logic of handling HTTP headers, which credentails to use. This could grow into a space where you have more than one credential. You still have problem of leaking information but other tools can address it. Like tools for finding sandboxes for javascript on the web.
   - Elf: I understand you talk about multiple user identities, not just credentials.
- Henry: One may end up with multiple user identifiers. You need the app to be able to know when to use which identity. I see it as key to enable discovery of which identity user should use to access the resource. I don't think every app should require building in management for all that complexity. Launcher App could handle that logic.
    - Elf: You have this requirement of multiple user identities. But, there might be some drawbacks with it. What you're talking about has a lot of privacy considerations, and I would not think it is possible. I think already the multi-resource server with one current idenity is the first step that we want to have. I think we might have oposite contradicting requirements.
- Mitzi: If you have very robust authentication and authorization. So if you can very carefully give access on a granular level. Would that be enough. So the idea of having multiple identities in multiple systems. Would that be something that can be accomplished by doing very careful
    - Elf: Henry is talking about in one interaction in the background the application detects in the background what identity is being used. I see no problem supporting an explicit change of identities, but I see a problem with having in the background this auto switching.
    - Mitzi: From a user perspective it's the same idea. So I need to have multiple accounts, but if you organize it very well and you have granular access. I think you're solving the same issue twice.
    - Henry: People login with twitter, facebook, linkedin etc. They will have mutliple identities and people will know then under multiple identities. You could have public way of linking all those identities which have some privacy requirements. You could have system that looks at public ACL files and based on that figure out which identies user can use.
    - Mitzi: Use Case, Iranian person living in UK may feel nervous about having certain information going in certain places. I may not want to have some location shared on Iranian server, just on UK server. You could have the same identity but controll information by where you publish it.
    - Henry: I see it as example why one would use different identies on different servers.
    - Mitzi: Or have granular access control to define who can access which information.
    - ...: What would happen if you multiple identies and you would endup with contradicting instructions about access?

### Update on 1.0 spec writing

- Jackson: Dmitri made outline to the spec, relatively exchaustive. Basicly going with DPoP with OIDC flows. Still subjects to talk about which will not get to 1.0 spec.
