# Meeting 08/19

## Use Cases
 - https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/blob/master/UseCases.md
 - Should we limit webIDs to https?
     - Henry: If you allow people to extend it then you're always dealing with broken protocols.
     - The web allows for caching so the web could just be the entry point and anything could be behind that.
     - If we deal with all the use cases, you'll never be able to write an app.
     - TASK: Decide if any what protocols to support for auth
     - Server should specify the authentications allowed
 - Michael: we should have a use case where it's okay to use an IDP but you use a self signed key.
 - UC: changing (forwarding old -> new) identity 
   - Michael: We should constrain the scope of changing identity. If we go with a redirect, do we get to see the end result uri?
   - Specifically we should be dealing with how do you authenticate once you move your WebID
   - If you're using your new identity where are the redirects?
   - Henry: You could have a redirect you could also use inverse funcitonal properties. If you have a private key you could prove another WebID represents the same person
- Offline use case useful for mesh networks, first responders, music festivals.
- Anonymous use case Aaron: Verify that someone has an account, but don't want to know who the person is.
    - You could have an anonymous issuer you authenticate with that issues more tokens that are anonymized
    - Elf: I've seen research on capability mechanisms.
- Multiple identities:
    - If you send all the identities to a RS then it knows all your identities
- Compatibility with other IDPs
    - Aaron: easiest way to do this is using a broker pattern where a solid-compatible auth server delegates auth to another IDP.

## Projects
 - Self-signed
 - 
