# 2019-10-21 Solid Authentication Panel

## Present

 - @jaxoncreed
 - @zenomt
 - @elf-pavlik
 - @dmitrizgidulin
 - @bblfish
 - Matthias

## Pull Requests



## Issues


## [Decide on header/mechanism for reporting auth metadata for a Solid pod (RS) #4](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/4)

- Dmitri: It's useful for the resource server to report some metadata along with the 401 unauthorized. Examples:
    - The Protocol
    - Communicate a challenge or nonce
    - Possibly to use realms (Though I don't think it's very widely used)
- ...: Issue 4 outlines what currently happens: On a 401 the resource server returns a WWW-Authenticate header with the "Bearer token type" authentication header. It communicates the realm, the scope, and whether or not we're using oidc.
- ...: It would be great to standardize this.
- Henry: 
  This is what I had for `rww-play` as [an example from that  wiki](https://github.com/read-write-web/rww-play/wiki/Curl-Interactions):
```
$ curl -X PATCH -k -i --data-binary @../eg/card.update \
    -H "Content-Type: application/sparql-update; utf-8"  \
    https://localhost:8443/2013/card
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
WWW-Authenticate: Signature realm="/"
Content-Length: 3878
...
```
  The `WWW-Authenticate` there is important to signal that HTTP-Signature is important. (It is not clear on the other hand what to do with the `realm`.)
- Elf: Preferably the resource server would have one common mechanism, but this mechanism would be useful for the future if we have multiple mechanisms, but for 1.0 we should only have one common mechanism.
- Dmitri: +1 to that. We should have one mechanism but the ability to version.
- Dmitri: The webid oidc protocol is different from all the authentication delegation protocols. Which all pods require to speak
- Michael: +1 for one required mechanism however it's implemented and identified via the "WWW-Authenticate" header and says "Bearer" so that other things besides Solid can tell what it is. It should still abide by the general HTTP Auth framework
- Elf: I created an issue a week ago about authenticating users. https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/27
- Should we have a mechanism that denotes which authentication / authorization system and version a Solid server is running?
    - Yes, but there should only be one mechanism
- What should that mechanism be? (Typically, this is done via the WWW-Authenticate response header, so if we continue going with that, what should the parameter be?)
    - That's the perfect header
- The WWW-Authenticate header spec tends to conflate authentication and authorization mechanisms into one, how do we separate the two?
    - Dmitri: RS could support different authorizations systems as Michael proposes. How does RS communicate what systems it supports.
    - Michael: I don't think it needs to. I proposed that when you authentiating with the server you either have access or not, methont shouldn't be relevant to the client.
    - Henry: Client needs to know which identity it has to provide... 
    - going off-topic
    - Dmitri: I ageree with Michael that we may not need to communicate it
    - Jackson: We may need to build ACL management apps and we may need to communicate it to them.
    - ...: Currently we require WAC but we may consider decoupling it.
    - Dmitri: We have issue for that in authorization panel
    - Michael: I don't have problem with server communicate it to client, but I see it orthogonal to authentication. `acl` link relation may hint WAC to the client.Elf
    - Michael: In general, who has access to what is something that you want to keep secure. Because that can potentially have a security flaw.
    - Henry: I'll open an issue on making access control rules visible but still secure.
    - Jackson: To sum up, the WWW-Authenticate header should only communicate authentication methods. If we want to do authorization methods we'll using the `Link` header
- Where should we keep a registry of the various supported systems / spec versions?
    - It will be listed in the top level spec.
- Elf: We might want to communicate which specific authorization server must be used. So, we can take this conclusion for now, but it will also depend on some other conversation.
- Dmitri: I'll make a pull request on this topic.

## [consider handling multiple realms per origin #9](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/9)

 - Michael: It sounds like there's confusion about what realms are. When you get a `WWW-Authenticate` that says `realm=something`, there could be 2 different realms on a server with different password files, so the client can know when it's challenged, it can associate whatever credential that's used with that realm. So it can use different authentication credentials on the same server. So, the point on #9 is to pay attention to the realm property. You should: keep track of the realm and expose it in the WWW-Authenticate header.
 - Elf: The realms in the spec cannot be overlapping in URI space right?
     - Michael: That's not a requirement in the http spec, but would probably never be implemented that way. You could have 2 different realms for the same URI, but no one ever does that. You might have completely independent servers mounted for the same path.
     - Elf: client can't figure out realm until it requests the resource and gets WWW-Authenticate header with realm, while client does know origin from IRI denoting the resource
 - Michael: Also, keep in mind the realms are opaque strings. Not the path.
     - Dmitri: In the examples given the realm is a URI just as something arbitrary. That's not bined to the spec. I'm cool with specifying that multiple realms are involved.
 - Henry: It would be interesting to see how realms can be used in an interesting way with wACLs. These make it possible to express different authentication options for each resources. Should the realm not be completely different then for each resource? Or how would the server decide what the realm scope is? When should the server say use this authentication for everything or should it not really be that the client on each resource is asked again about the authication it wants to use.
 - Dmitri: What are the exact steps that should be made in regard to the spec
     - Michael: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7235#section-2.2 should be mentioned in the spec.
     - Elf: Once we have clarity on the token mechanism, we should provide some guidence on what kind of client implementation that impacts.
     - Michael: If the scheme of today's pop token is completely unchanged, but once you include nonces you need to list 
    

## Alternative Authorization Flow

- Jackson: I will create issue documenting conversation about flow which doesn't requrie client to wrap PoPToken but has more trips to OP.


## To Look at

 - https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-control-panel/issues/48
