source: https://github.com/solid/app-authorization-panel

# Issues with current PoP Tokens

- In OAuth client doesn't have authority to issue authorization tokens
- No way to revoke tokens, it belongs to authorization server
- Often Bearer tokens are small strings, we mandate very specific format
- No real division of http realms
- No way for RS to challange client 
- RS has authorization server
- Q elf Pavlik - would you like RS to have possibility to delegate to some other authorization server?
  - resource server in my prototype can already get used with different authorization server - you just get link from where client needs to get access token
  - Dmitri: If you have identity tied to different PODs on different domains ...
- discussing sequence diagram: https://github.com/zenomt/webid-auth-protocol#webid-oidc-proof-of-possession-operation

- Dmitri: I see helpful to have differences from current PoP tokens workflow. For couple of them we opened dedicated issues.
  - adding nonce
  - standard authentication schemes header
  - should we allow realms more granular than origin - essentially allow multiple access control schemes per resource server, i see arguments for and against.
  - zenomt: we should at least don't disallow them
  - Dmitri: I find them very rarely used and they seem to have responsibility which in Solid we handle with webACL
  - PoP token endpoint in the response (with 401 response), it adds another endpoint and at least another request. We trading extra HTTP request for more perceived control of the session by the resource server.
  - Dmitri: in multi resource server we want to avoid additional interaction from the user
    - zenomt: proposed protocol doesn't require user/personal interaction (that's the app-authorization proposal)
  - zenomt: I look for fitting into existing OAuth infrastructure
  - Dmitri: I find matching existing infrastrucuture a certain concern, ultimately multi-RS environment operates in different constraints than most current OAuth systems. I don't see strong use case for adding additinal HTTP request.
  - zenomt: client will remember auth token
  - Dmitri: this mechanism only defers certain control to explicit authentication server
  - elf Pavlik: it looks to me mostly like a way to decouple RS from authorization server, so those responsibilities can get separated.
  - bblfish: after 401 the whole dance comes to requesting token to get that requested resource. if you interact with 300 resource servers, additional http call can give overhead. 

- Dmitri: I find it helpful to split it into individual proposals and split it in individual issues. If possible expressed as changes to current workflow.
- zenomt: it only increases HTTP requests by 33% 3:2 not 2:1

https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/7

- Dmitri: mostly naming issue, in OAuth id tokens don't get exposed to resource servers
- I think it illustrates differencce in constraints OAuth focuses on and Solids needs to address.
