# 2019-12-16 Authentication Panel

## Present

* @dmitrizagidulin
* @jacksoncreed
* @bblfish
* @elf-pavlik

## Issues

### Combined Auth call on Mondays
- elf-pavlik: I can't do Wednesday calls any more.
- ...: I also think we should do more offline github workflow so we may not need two calls anymore.
- Jackson: it looks like our workflow also moves more to authorization

### [Changes to the PoP Token flow #7](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/7)
 - Dmitri: I think Elf is referring to the last comment I left which just summarizes the development so far. We're switching the PoP mechanism from the nested token to use the DPoP spec. And changing the muli resource server mechansim from using the ID token to using an identity credential inside the claim.
 - Elf: In the case where the solid storage acts as a relying party, do we also use this id credential?
     - Dmitri: I'm not sure that that is a special case. This ID credential is in addition to a simplified use case where it's not multi-rs. It's single RS where the relying party can get an access token. So the id credential can be used with a traditional oauth access toekn. But in terms of a "secial case" do you mean accessing a non-rdf resource from the RS?
     - Elf: Yes I see that as a special case because we don't use oauth. We use a local session. Another case is we use oauth on the storage server.
     - Dmitri: I don't see that as a special case because that's a typical workflow of going through the flow and then recieving the cookie.
     - Elf: In that case the storage server gets the id token. Do we also want to require the id credntial in the token and use that?
     - ...: How do we verify that issuer issued the credential. How do we verify the credential itself?
     - Dmitri: I believe it's the same mechanism. I think the two mechanisms of verifiable credentials and openid connect are very similar, but there's a different resolution mechanism. So we should definitely mention it in the spec. So, let's write a note.

### Dmitri spec update
 - Dmitri: Will be making PRs this week for comment on the spec.
 - Dmitri: As I mentioned on the previous calls. The main changes are alreayd in the various issues. Like the changes to the PoP token flow. So the PRs are a continuation of that.

## Authorization

https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-control-panel/issues/53

 - elf-pavlik: 
 - Dmitri: do we have exmaples of capablities?
 - elf-pavlik: they map pretty well to the Rich Authorization Requests IETF draft. I see need for at list combination of access mode + shape e.g read contacts and write calendar events.
 - Dmitri: I need to check VC spec how it deals with multiple credentials in JWT representation.
 - ...: Do we have consensus on requiring those capabilities?
 - elf-pavlik: to replace trusted apps we need at least access mode based capabilities.  I see it safe to take step of adding access mode + shape
 - ...: we may not need two separate credentials and capability would include information about which user granted it. For that reason I also don't see them independent / separate, same Authorization header needs to handle both pieces of information.
 - ...: It seems like we need to handle those together.
 - Dmitri: We probably want to pass it 'by reference'. I think we just need to add to ID credential a field with url reference to capability credential.
 - elf-pavlik: as long as we don't have any location specific information in capabilities, we can resue capabilities across resource servers.
 - Dmitri: At time of consent screen client has no knowledge about any locations. 
 - elf-pavlik: we should see if we can send credentials (ID & Capabilities) in Authorization header without nesting them.
