# 2019-09-23 Solid Authentication Panel

## Present

* @jaxoncreed
* @zenomt
* @elf-pavlik
* @bblfish
* @dmitrizagidulin

## Panel Boundaries
 - Elf: May be simpler if we have one panel with two calls
 - elf-pavlik: where does the client authentication belong to, either client_id + secret or some assertion based client auth (both client to AS)
 - Henry: As long as everyone agrees that the concepts are very close, I am not against them being two panels (it's only if the panels refused discussing overlap that I think they should be merged).  But I'm not against merging either.
 - Jaxon: same people show up and it might make sense
 - Michael: One reason to keep them separate is the expected deliverability date. The Authentication panel is supposed to have something by december.
 - Elf: We need to be careful about rushing authentication so we don't do something that will tie our hands with authorization.

## Henry's Proposal

- [Http Signature PR](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/20) better looked [at here in one file](https://github.com/bblfish/authentication-panel/blob/master/HttpSignature.md)
- [User Controlled Authorization App and App Launcher proposal](https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-control-panel/issues/45)
- Henry: The main thing was a lot of discussion about capabilities vs access control. This is a system to identify a user. I don't think it's clear.
- Henry: The new thing I came up with is where the keys come from. The client can sign http headers. It doesn't have to use an identifier but would use a key id. How does the client get the key? JavaScript could create a private key locally. The key could be either the javascript instance or the origin or the friend of the origin. So, how do guarantee that the key is owned by the user and not the origin. The user's personal Pod can have some javascript that's the "application launcher keychain" for all apps the user likes to use. If you do that you can have
    - A unified access control UI
    - The private key can be saved in the browser or on ther server. So it can sign headers for other applications for other origins via the window post message method of communication.
- Henry: It launches the private key management app and signs token with a private key. Perhaps this could deal with outh
- Elf: That sounds like we're talking about client authentication (directly to RS). This concept does not only apply to http signatures.
    - Henry: Right I can explain the http signatures part but it could be generalizable
- Dmitri: To be clear. OAuth in its threat model talks about having mechanisms for passing the client token around so that's not really a problem we're facing currently. A general purpose signature based authentication panel is going to be useful, but there's a lot of groundwork to do around supporting new key ontologies etc.
    - Henry: But if we started by saying this could actually work, then we can give it to another group to build on. This would allow you to create completely RESTful Solid-based system. Does it help others? You seem to say it's not interesting to OAuth, but it does help the http signature case.
- Elf: What do you think about settling on a direction that the client will always hold a public key. We could use assertion 
  - elf-pavlik: OAuth Sender Constrained tokens eg. PoP or DPoP
- Jaxon: we always want to outsource key management to some server, User may not want to deal with it.
    - Henry: But this would make that easier to do. It doesn't just give you the keychain piece. This has to be tested but this could be a way to have a keychain that works with every browser that doesn't leak the keys on to the origin.
- Elf: I agree that we don't want to make the user manually manage keys. We could use assertion based authentication with the client, but we could 
- Jaxon: Please include sequence diagrams for any proposal you want to put out.
- Elf: Henry, have you considered what would take responsibility for a user granting access. Would it be with this keychain app? If the client authenticates directly to the resource server and we don't use an authorization serever, where would that be?
    - Henry: There used to be something called HTTP remote fetch where you could have something like a Proxy that would fetch remote documents. So you could filter all your requests to a proxy and that would prevent the server from allowing that.
    - Elf: IF that app holds the private key then we cannot assume this app will use the proxy we want, because it could use its own
    - Henry: You always trust your keychain app. So the web browser is not acting as a confused deputy 
- Jaxon: so you trust you 'keychain app' and all the other apps that you want to delegete just subset of you access, how do they make requirests? Do thay always make requests via the 'keychain app'?
 - Henry: I'm note sure if we need different frame or just different tab. We need to check postMessage constraints.
 - Elf: I think we should try to take the open questions from the minutes and put them in the issues. Whoever asked question and didn't get satisfying answer could preferably follow up in respective issue with more details.
 - Dmitri: This has come up before and has been discussed in solid before and the result was unsatisfactory. This is definitely not the first time it has come up. 
 - elf-pavlik: solid-auth-client uses pop-up window and postMessage to authenticated with IdP and pass token to the client.
 - Jaxon: it can also redirect in the main window as another option.
 - Dmitri: redirecting in main window impacts keeping the app state throughout direct. this pop-up window gets served from location configured in the app. Solid auth client embeds default pop-up.
 - Jaxon: it only takes the token from pop-up window and uses postMessage to send it to the main window.

## DID Discussion
 - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/79
 - Jaxon: I would like to clarify if we need MUST or SHOULD with respect to support for DID.
 - Jaxon: For every feature we should have at least some kind of fallback with less efficient way of doing the same. If RS receives DID it needs to know how to de-reference it.
 - Dmitri: Agreed. If we are to implement it we need to do it as a MUST, which means we also need to specify which DiD methods its going to support. So, it's definitely an issue.
 - Henry: I wonder if that's an issue. I made the server specify which authentication methods are allowed. 
 - Jaxon: Many people who want to use DID don't want to have additional WebID.
 - Elf: Can we consider a webid as a subset of DiD. We'd say for now the only required method is WebID for the 1.0 spec.
 - Jaxon: does DID community has plans to provide downlodable code for de-referencing DIDs ?
 - Dmitri: The state of the art at the moment is there are use cases that care about security. And they have secure and verified clients. The more flexible methods rely on universal DiD resolvers: libraries and APIs that support all the DiD method. There are agregator libraries that suppot.
