# 2019-10-14 Solid Authentication Panel

## Present

* @zenomt
* @jaxoncreed
* @elf-pavlik
* @bblfish
* @dmitrizagidulin

## Pull Requests

### [Detail Solid extension for HTTP Signature #20](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/20)

- @elf-pavlik: I think we should merge proposals quick and iterate on them in dedicated issues
- @zenomt: we should mark things which don't represent consensus of the panel
- @jaxoncreed: will HTTP Sig require RS to implement multiple forms of authentication? if we go with OIDC and HTTP-Sig
- @bblfish: I had implementation of WebID-TLS and HTTP-Sig together
- @jaxoncreed: when it comes to authentication methods, it's harder to have methods as options to choose from, whatever we agree on should have MUST implement
- @bblfish: I think it depends on the client ...
- @dmitrizagidulin: to clarify, we have concern of what RS has to implement
- @bblfish: we already have user name & password etc.
- @dmitrizagidulin: they only come for authenticating with OP not RS
- @bblfish: how do we decide then on which mechanism to choose for the spec? i think it may be to early to make such decision
- @dmitrizagidulin: unlike access control methods, all RS need to understand all authentication methods
- @elf-pavlik: i would prefer to merge it and follow up with specific focused issues (Dmigtri mentioned two) and then label them with this proposal and follow with focused PRs addressing those specific issues.
- @elf-pavlik: i see proposals as member submissions which don't represent consuensus of the panel and rather give clear reference for futhre conversations and somtething to iterate on

### [Panel Finding: OAuth Implicit Flow #24](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/24)

- @dmitrizagidulin: no implementations currently will comply, i think we can require it for authorization servers but not clients, some clients will use device flow.
- @zenomt: if we say authorization code with PKCE is a MUST, there is no reason to implement Implicit Flow, in effect we would say that client MUST implement this flow. Implicit Flow may be a good hint for the server to use stateless registration.
- @elf-pavlik: I think we should give guidance on all the flows/grants we anticipate use of 
- @dmitrizagidulin: saying - we are expecting to be compliant with OIDC spec has advantage of just deferring to it

## Issues

### [Changes to the PoP Token flow #7](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/7)

- @zenomt: I'm not a fan of Justin Richer's proposal. Using access tokens instead of id tokens seems backwards. This looks like converting access token into id token instad of keeping it opaque as oauth mandates.
- @zenomt: If you use access token and present it somewhere else, it's only secure if its bound to public key and use something like PoP / DPoP. I don't think it prevents replays as it claims.
- @zenomt: There is a lot to be specified to do that, changing signature model to DPoP or HTTP Sig depends on the first point. In authorization system which I proposed, how you prove possesion of private key is easy to change. I think PoP just its job just fine.
- @dmitrizagidulin: I agree that access tokens are not appropriate mechanism for cross domain authentication. Possibly are the domain of Resource Servvers. I like idea of rephrasing them to id credentials. We shouldn't be assing id token, access token is not what we should change it to, we should change it to credentials.
- @elf-pavlik: 
- @dmitrizagidulin: just adds user authenticating feature profile
- @dmitrizagidulin: we picked OAuth2 for potential of doing app authorization
- @dmitrizagidulin: i think we should do similar 'to solve' list like we did in authorization panel
- @dmitrizagidulin: let's put agenda item for next week

### [Authenticating Clients #25](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/25)

- @dmitrizagidulin: clients need to authenticate to resource servers so it can apply WAC rules and trusted app rules, 
- @elf-pavlik: i think authorization server verifies client identity, client can't claim identity oneself and resource server relies on authorization server verifying it.
- @dmitrizagidulin: our 'to solve' list will capture cascade of dependencies
- 
