# 2019-09-30

## 1.0 Spec
 - Mitzi: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues
     - ^ All these issues define the work that needs to be done. So, we want to be sure the things we're talking about make it into there.
     - There's a labeling system. So if there's an issue that might be covered by the panel, label it, or tell Mitzi. [Authentication Label](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aauthentication)
 - Mitzi: We're throwing around v1.0. And I haven't seen a clear definition of what version 1 is. There are dates (a sprint stategy with the editorial system).
 - Mitzi: The next date is december 19, and we want to be sure the things we're working on are on that milestone.
 - Dmitri: To frame the discussion: every standards body wrestles with "When is the spec ready?" It's always a matter of deadlines. The spec is never done. So, the 1.0 spec is whatever consensus is come to by that date.
     - How can we remove the remaining blockers for app developers.

## 1.0 Spec for Authentication
 - Jaxon: Dmitri and I had conversation that we need 4 things:
     1. Normative Language of what we have right now
     2. Semantic updates (based on Justin Richer prosal)
     3. Left open for extension ([DIDs](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec) and [Verifiable Credentials](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model))
     4. Other flows need to be detailed to fall in line with needed use cases (PKCE or Client Credentials)
 - Dmitri: A couple of recent issues opened by Aaron that cover some of these compoents:
     - [Formalize JWT access structure](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/77)
     - [generalize protocol beyond WebID](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/79) 
 - Henry: I'm fine with that. Through the last week I've been talking with Dmitri about WebID and Confused Deptuy. This lead me to continue researching ways to prove security properties of protocols.  It could be interesting to apply these to the protocols under discussion. 
  https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/18#issuecomment-535107620https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/18#issuecomment-535107620On the self issued discussion, (which I can't see listed in the notes, ...) I've had a feeling there is a way to do something in the WebID space that addresses a lot more questions (WebID using web crypto). At some point I think there should be a discussion about Self-signed. I think there could be an HTTP signature based flow with JS-crypto that answers many problems discussed with Dmitri (but of course it would help to be able to prove this.)
 - Dmitri: Of the four items, the second one is the most ambiguous. Item 2 leaves a lot of room for discussion.
 - Michael: I think we should either write down what we have now, or if we're going to talk about changing it, we should not limit ourselves to things that Justin has brought up
     - Dmitri: I agree, I think we should have as much as possible oriented to what is blocking app developers. I know you feel strongly about resource servers granting their own accesss tokens, but I don't think it's blocking app developers.
     - Michael: Blocker wise, there are very few with the current system. Most concerns are around security. But one of the major blockers is formalizing how apps are identified.

### Self-issued flows

https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/11

 - Dmitri: I think it's a cool flow, but it's only useful for desktop and mobile apps.
     - Michael: IMO also bots
     - Dmitri: I expect I'll make recomendation around prime credentials flow, but I'm not exactly seeing how it's available for bots
     - Michael: I reference this in my protocol. You do end up with a proof token. If you have a self-issued token you basically treat it as if it was WebID TLS. You list the public key right in the token and you match the public key with the puclic key in the webid. A bot that knows the key can generate a token and it ends up saving 2 additional round trips to the openid providers (one to get the well-known and the other the get the JWKs set). The whole point of the self issued flow is you can save those round trips in a bot.
     - Dmitri, we should open 2 issues about that:
         - For the 1.0 spec, make recommendations for authentication of bots, services, and IOT devices
         - Consider whether the self-issued OIDC flow is good for bots.
     - Michael: My protocol is supporting SIOP (Self issued openid) On the client side any client supporting self issued things is going to be something already written for that. It's going to be more interesting for the bot use case, because a bot can use other flows.
 - Elf: I have an impression that we should clarify this agent's approach. And then we might see bots differently. I think we should clarify a bit further, and describe the use case. Then consider different solutions like self-issued, client credentials etc, but I think we've been missing some clarification.
     - Dmitri: Agreed, it's useful to settle on some of these terms.
 - Dmitir: Michael, how do bots make a request to the openid endpoint
     - Michael: they don't, they just make their own token.
     - Dmitri: I think this doesn't follow the openID flow. Because it's about a user hosting an idp
     - Michael: Anything can make a JWT can sign it.
 - Henry:  On Http Signatures, I believe I've developed a way to bypass confused deputy problem, and deal with a number of issues around client authenticaiton that keep coming up in this panel. 
   My thinking started with "Why does WebID-TLS work?": The key is generated by starting to  go to a pod owner website (origin) which serves the html containing the keygen, which generates the key, and publishes the public key.
   So I thought, what's the difference between this a JavaScript app authentication? All you need is a JavaScript served by the pod owners origin that takes care of launching apps, secure generation securely private keys/public keys by JS in control of the POD owner. (Eveyone can have a JavaScript app registry on the pod. This JavaScript can do the signing.) You know the key is always going to be secured by your domain origin. This app (controlled by the user) can then launch remote apps, and do all the signing of headers which these apps needs using JS [Window.postmessage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage). This can allow one to identify the remote apps, and make sure the keys identify the user using that app. [See details on issue HTTP-Sig issue 18](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/18#issuecomment-535107620).
     - Dmitri: Part of the problem of HTTP signatures is that it's vulnerable to confused deputy.
     - Henry: I think this gets around it, but I don't know. That is why I think one needs to model these protocols using some logic that is respected in the industry, can explain the confused deputy, ... I have spent the last week researching this. ( One very interesting paper I am just reading is [Succour to the Confused Deputy - Types for Capabilities](http://fpl.cs.depaul.edu/cpitcher/research/2012-09-20-aplas-full-version-for-web.pdf)) Then we can see whether or not this addresses the confused deputy problem. In any case it would be good to be able to formalise what the various auth panels are working on.

Questions about the 1.0 Spec:
* Should the SIOP (Self-Issued OpenID Connect) flow be a part of that spec?
* Other self-signed flows?
* Should formalizing app identifiers be part of 1.0?
* Should HTTP Signatures be part of the 1.0 spec?
* Is Dynamic Registration a problem that we need to solve with 1.0?
    * Michael: Part of this can be addressed by Stateless Registration.

## Justin Richer's Proposal
 - https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/21
 - Michael: There's been some discussion where some things got a little clarified. I wrote a comment where I went through his points from his initial posting:
     - Public clients / Dynamic Registration. He proposed to get rid of dynamic registration and use something implicit like WebID.
         - I don't think dynamic registration is something that needs to be solved.
         - For doing implicit registration, it doesn't work if whatever that is needs to be dereferenced by the OpenID provider.
     - DPoP and ephemeral keys is from a misunderstanding of what's been happening. DPoP is semantically the same as the current PoP token.
         - DPoP doesn't solve any of the issues that I've come up with, like a challenge directly from the server.
         - It is semantically unnecissay and doesn't solve problems I think exist.
     - Making an id_token an access token
         - The whole notion of switching to an access token is not a good idea because it's doing the same thing
     - Structured Scope
         - This assumes that the identity provider has the authority to grant a scope, but it doesn't.
         - It shold be done in such a way that wouldn't leak private information out to others who receive the token.
 - Dmitri: All good points.
     - If it turns out that DPoP tokens are semantically equivalent, because if they are equivalent, then it's better to switch because those are more formalized.
     - Structured Scopes: That's for Authorization. Do they help us with App Access Control
     - In the proposal Justin Richer's main point is that the ID Token is not appropriate to wrap in the PoP token. 
         - It might make sense to reframe the discussion as not changing it to an access token, but changing it to a verifiable credential.
 - Dmitri: we aim at maintainers of popular OIDC libs ([MitreID Connect](https://id.mitre.org/connect/), [panva's libs](https://github.com/panva/node-oidc-provider)) - the more IETF (or W3C) drafts we can point them to, the stronger our argument is

## Clarifying Intersection with Access Control Panel
 - Should be the first Adgenda point for the Access Control Panel
 - How do we identify clients? 
 - Let's take a look at the [UMA 2.0](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-grant-2.0.html) and [Federated UMA](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-federated-authz-2.0.html) specs, see if they can be helpful in our Authn/Authz discussion.

## Refresh Tokens

- Dmitri: spec supports them, currently not implemented due to us running out of time

## Future Call Agenda
* Discuss HTTP Signatures
