# 2019-09-23

## Present
* @jaxoncreed
* @elf-pavlik
* @zenomt
* @dmitrizagidulin
* @bblfish

## Justin Richer Proposal
 - https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/21
 - @zenomt: Dmitri pointed out one misunderstanding about how his PoP approach works. Dynamic Registration doesn't register key used in PoP token, it just creates client_id.
 - @zenomt: I don't understand details of what Justin proposes, especially the Authorization Server part.
 - @zenomt: The notion of there being structured scopes and an auth server that gives an access token and presenting that with dpop.
 - elf: Verifying the application: the authorization binds the token to the public key of the application.
 - elf: It would be nice if Justin could give us a sequence diagram.
 - Jackson: How it works today: https://github.com/solid/webid-oidc-spec/blob/master/application-user-workflow.md
 - Dmitri: I think we all agree we don't need the Dynamic Registration
 - @zenomt: I don't agree, we only use it for application to talk to OP, how app supposed to talk to OP without client secret. My implementation uses auth code flow.
 - Dmitri: 2 problems:
     - Secure Clients (clients that can store their client secret) Dynamic registration was created to exchange keys and issue a client secret. It's a way to give a secure client identity
     - For Public clients (in browser javascript apps) The dynamic registration step doesn't do anything. Beyond the registration session the clientID is useless. Every session will get a different client ID.
 - Dmitri: The idea behind Justin's proposal: in the case of public clients we can use another mechanism to identify the app, such as the redirect uri.
 - Michael: Dynamic registration does bind redirect uris with the clientID which ensures all authentication with the server is all talking about the same redirect uri. Dropping dynamic registration in favor of something else requires some security study.
 - Elf: Native applications are considered public clients?
     - Dmitri: traditionally yes, but not really because they have public storage and with the additional of PKCE they are as secure as a secure client.
     - Elf: How is it different than an in browser app using Index DB
     - Dmitri: Even index db is more ephemeral than mobile apps.
     - Elf: If was want to consider Native apps public clients
 - Jaxon: We currently put redirect URI directly in the token as the audience of the token. Should we use client_Id as the audience of id token?
 - Michael: to follow the spec client_id should be in the token to avoid diverging from OAuth and OIDC
 - Dmitri: In browser clients don't benefit from DynReg. OAuth2 and OIDC was created for services like Google, Twitter etc. and mostly relied on static registration. Dynamic registration was added much later. We re-register redirect URI every time we make authorization request, OP authenticates the app by sending the token to that redirect URI. We exchange keys in registration step. AFAIK auth.xyz operates from the same assumptions.
 - Jaxon: how does the DynReg conflict with Michael's proposal
     - It doesn't conflict at all
 - Elf: I think our support should work well with mobile apps. It should have some things to identify apps as a public key. We may find a more universal approach of proving the identity of the app. In that case the redirect uri becomes irrelevant in some way. I think it makes sense if we think of a user that wants to register each app to give it authorizations. We also want to have an app identity that a user can say "I want to give this app some authorization" even if it has different instances on different devices.
 - Dmitri: We need a more persistant app identity beyond that. Web cryptography is useful for identifying the client during authentication. For the purposes of user authentication, we need a more persistant.
 - Elf: the webid could keep either the public key or the  redirect url.
 - Dmitri: We will end up with an app manifest: there will be some sort of file that will have information like the app uri. We can't use the private public key to identify the app.
 - Dmitri: Index db still gets cleared out when you clear browser cookies. There's no way to bind a public key to a redirect_uri. The redirect_uri is the only persistant id for in-browser apps
 - Elf: Let's look at how mobile apps differ from that
     - Dmitri: what do you use as the redirect uri? Each app registers it's own protocol handler with the mobile os like (mysolidapp://) handler protocol. Essentially each app has its own origin.
     - It was really easy for one app the steal the other's token, so PKCE was created to prevent that. Each app makes a public private key pair to prevent other apps from stealing its token.
     - These days both mobile and desktop apps are secure because with PKCE they have access to secure keychains, but browser apps do not have that.
     - For mobile and desktop apps dynamic registration is a good idea. Registering a key pair.
 - Michael: Two clarifications:
     - On device redirect uris can also be http(s) uris. Android and iOS allow registration of origins.
     - PKCE is a public private key pair based on hashing rather than actual crypto. The math is much cheaper.
 - Elf: This morning before the call I looked at the self-issued and was wondering does it depend on redirect uris?
     - It still depends on ephemeral keys. Self issued flows are for bots and mobile apps that are able to store secrets.

## Writing the Normative Spec
 - Michael: It's always good to have something to point at and say "yes" or "no"
 - Dmitir: are we interested in pursuing standardization in the other bodies like IETF.
 - Michael: It's a good idea to do something that standards organizations would want to touch.

## Normative Spec Items
 - Dmitri: do we want to have DiD authentication? Now with the standardization of verifiable credientials and DiDs they're coming up on the same problems as Solid. It would make sense to focus on what DiD and VC are talking about
     - Dmitri: It wouldn't take much to integrate those two into the spec.
     - Dmitri: instead of using an id token, why not request a verifiable credential.



