# 2020-01-20 Authentication Panel

## Present

* @elf-pavlik
* @dmitrizagidulin
* @bblfish

## Issues

### WebID-TLS

- elf-pavlik: does anyone intend to use WebID-TLS with the RS or it will only be used with OP.
- dmitrizagidulin: I recall various conversations but AFAIK we don't to use it directly with RS. We only intend to support it as login to OP.
- elf-pavlik: do we even need to have explicit mention since OP can use anything?
- dmitrizagidulin: I think for clarity we should mention it in non normative way.
- bblfish: people from Mozilla were researching reconnecting using TLS etc. I don't defend it just see it as interesting approach.
- ...: I see HTTP Signatures as better mechanism.
- elf-pavlik: should we draft some historical note explaining WebID-TLS.
- bblfish: in WebID-TLS work we wanted to publish note about limitations of WebID-TLS including HTTP/2 compability and UX issue with cert selector popup.
- elf-pavlik: I will take action to make PR to https://solid.github.io/specification/#webid-tls

### [(WIP) Tokens and Credentials section. #37](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/37)

- elf-pavlik: we should add example with JWS and how public key of OP gets discovered for identity credential verification (not DPOP proof part)

### Spec writing

- dmitrizagidulin: I will add PR with note of deriving WebID, access tokens, validation of tokens and credentials.

### special case with deploying OP and RS together

- dmitrizagidulin: yes i plan to include it for enterprise deployment cases.
- elf-pavlik: what normative requirements it would incude and what impact on conformance for various parties.
- dmitrizagidulin: i would mention that this spec supports that use of access_token for that specific use case.
- elf-pavlik: so minimal clients would not need to implement suport and they would still fully conform to the spec.
