# 2020-06-01

## Attendance
 - Jackson
 - Justin
 - Oz
 - Adam
 - Aaron
 - Dmitri

## Spec Update (Adam)
 - Adam: We now have a draft of some sections. But, I haven't given it to anyone yet because I'm behind on my part. Ricky's doing the bulk of the writing and I'm editing, and I'm behind on my duty. But shortly after that if everyone's good with it we can put it up on github. It's mostly boilerplate. It's the introduction and the terminology and conformance. We have a core concepts section. Basic flow. So we'll send something out for people to look at. So, it's not going to be a whole lot. It's just the beginning of the document. But, it's something. It's the introduction. I think I will get to it tonight.
 - Justin: Good to hear progress. My question was if you guys have a high level outline on how you see the composition of the spec. We have one here https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/blob/master/oidc-authentication.md. For the outline you guys have in mind, do you see that link being fairly representative?
 - Adam: There's a difference. It doesn't look strictly like this for sure. I immagine there will be an audience, use cases, and design goals, but I don't think it will be in the introduction. I don't think there will need to be a section on compatibility with OIDC or differences with OIDC. Because that's predicated on it being a protocol that is slightly different than OIDC. Instead we're looking at it as something built on top of OIDC. There's a couple of places where we're looking at things differently semantically. Our concepts section will look a little different. We're trying to start fresh and we're trying to include enough so there's some continuity. 
 - Adam: We're first tackling what needs to be a MUST rather than what is optional. I don't want to overrun anyone with too much being completed. So we'll put things out in small chunks.
 - Justin: One of the points you made about this being built on top of OIDC. Maybe you could talk about it as what you're not including because we're basically pointing out the parts that we're adding on top of OIDC which would make it a less bulky document.
 - Adam: Well it gets complicated because DPoP is in the mix. So, OIDC is not just one building block. It should come off as something that talks about OIDC being a foundation and this is what we added to make it Solid, because Solid is a paridigm shift. What Solid is based on, things like linked data, needs to be reflected in the spec. It's not just about what the difference with this is.
 - Justin: We sometimes have suffered from looking at the most immediate kinds of flows and patterns that you use, but there are a number of kinds of flows that OIDC employs. And those are flows that support both interactive and non-interactive. Both are equally important. A lot of work would stop at the "I'm a person logging in." And we're starting to get into a lot of areas where there wasn't enough work to cover the whole spectrum. So we want to be sure we're focusing on not just a person logging in, but other use cases.
 - Adam: That's a great comment. I've seen standards that came from the articulated rules of the winner's implementation. We're looking at this by looking at what software already exists. We don't want to put in the spec anything beyond what's been implemented in the software. We're going in the form of design -> code -> standard. So if there's more design work, that can be translated into the standard. That must be concentrated in the flows you're doing in software. As long as you can design it enough, I'd prefer to see the software. I don't want to run too far ahead.
 - Justin: I think this is where use cases can be valuable. We merged in the use cases from this panel into the main spec repo. So, that would be the right place for these to end up.
 - Adam: There's a place for use cases in the spec as well as long as it's scoped for the authorization spec.
 - Justin: Here are the use cases: https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/blob/master/use-cases-and-requirements.bs (note this is more focused on structure of the doc than content at this moment)
