# W3C Solid Community Group: Authentication Panel

* Date: 2021-11-15T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-authentication
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/authentication-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel


## Present
* Aaron Coburn
* Barath
* elf Pavlik
* Pete Edwards

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* elf Pavlik
* 

---

## Agenda

* [Open Pull Requests](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pulls)
* [Test Suite](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/22)
* [Next week agenda](https://hackmd.io/WL-2bKCRRMmSpkP1XA6xpg)

---

## Topics

### Open Pull Requests

https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pulls

### Resource Server and Authorization Server

* eP: (share screen with new diagram See also https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/18#issuecomment-968956762)
  * ...: initial step the same (WWW-Authenticate)
  * ...: clarify that the user provides a WebID value
  * ...: clarify implicit trust where a user needs to provide an OP URL for non-public WebID profiles. (This should be part of the tests)
  * ...: WebID-based discovery
  * ...: authorization code flow (with DPoP) to retrieve token
  * ...: clarification of where user is authenticated
  * ...: client requests access token and pushes claim token. This is outside the scope of Solid-OIDC, and Authorization panel may have something to add at this stage, too. Both AuthN/AuthZ will describe what is needed in that claim token
  * ...: AS verifies trust in WebID profile
  * ...: clarification about when the client is authorized by the authorization server
  * ...: the access token provided by AS could be opaque or it could be a JWT, but it is out of scope for Solid-OIDC
  * ...: clarification that the user is now authenticated at the resource server
  * ...: it will be important to separate the normative from the non-normative portions of this. Also which parts are in and out of scope for Solid-OIDC
  * ...: for 1.1/1.2 we may want to define which types of claims are pushed in the interaction between client and AS
* AC: It would be good to clarify WWW-Authenticate header, what Solid-OIDC should specify. 
* eP: the as_uri may be the only required part. The scope may be good to have, but not necessary for Solid-OIDC
* AC: We may need to clarify that server can provide multiple WWW-Authenticate headers. Here it could provide DPoP related header, and separate for UMA style.
* eP: a single header can also provide multiple challenges
* AC: some examples would be helpful
* eP: will make a note of this in the WWW-Authenticate issue (??? add URL)
* AC: I support the general direction, we have something similar already implemented in Inrupt products.
* eP: the diagram indicates when the client is authenticated at which point to which party
  * ...: it would be important to also add the client_id verification and which party is responsible for that
  * ...: previously the access token would have the `client_id` value, but we will need a clear mechanism to identify the client
  * ...: in the simple version the OP would be responsible for verifying the identity of the client
* AC: client authentication seems to be folded in interaction with OP
* eP: for client_credentials, all the interactions happen via the OP, so the AS will rely on what the OP asserts.
  * ...: we will want to ensure that the client identity is included in the ID token and eventual access token from the AS

ACTION: eP will add the Client Identifier flow will be integrated into this flow


### Test Suite

https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc-tests
https://solid.github.io/solid-oidc-tests/

* AC: There is repository https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc-tests
  * ...: It uses github pages to produce a static app
  * ...: I can, for example, test Solid OIDC issuer. Then it provides a conformance report explaining which tests are passing and which are failing. It also provides MUST / MAY level.
  * ...: It would be nice to get results as RDF. All the tests are described as RDF already.
  * ...: Pete had suggestion, I use comment now, but spec vocab (currently on branch not published) has property called statement.
  * ...: There are some things hard coded; for example, using specific crypt algorithms. CSS team has run it against their server; it was only failing very recent change to the spec introducing WebID scope.
  * ...: Some UI design could happen here, for now it is a decent start.
* eP: does it test interaction of OP with a client, or also with RS?
* AC: currently it tests OP client interaction
  * ...: it does test some OIDC interaction, well-known, public key, etc.
  * ...: I'm only testing ID Token, anticipating changes coming next
* eP: noticing annotations, there is nothing stopping us using JSON-LD in the spec document (rather than Turtle). What is the process of extracting the 'statement'.
* AC: the current test suit has no dependencies. I'm pulling descriptions as JSON, since they are in compacted JSON-LD.
  * ...: I have multiple suites. The test is just few lines of code. We pass identifier for relevant test, and whether it passed, plus optional message.
  * ...: In data directory, I can describe new test or requirement, and reference it from test suite.
  * ...: I'm performing some reflection to get methods of the class, so if you add a method to the class, it automatically runs.
* PE: When we interpret the spec, you can see requirement level and requirement subject. If you do that in turtle fragments you would have duplication.
  * ...: Is you report function going directly to HTML? I assume you can start outputting EARL.
* AC: I currently do some DOM manipulation, but we could output the data in any other way.
* AC: In test suite, some requirement statements are pointing to different specs. We can't expect OIDC spec to include RDF with requirements. We can either include requirements for those specs or not test things not defined in OIDC spec.
  * ...: I think it's helpful for developers to test dependencies from OIDC specs. For example, test whether issuer matches.
  * ...: I don't know how far we can go with expecting data to be automatically loaded from the spec. Sometimes we need to have a separate manifest.
* PE: I see value for the developer of tests guiding them.
* eP: To extract statements from the spec test,  we could make each requirement an element and just use text in that element as a statement. We would still just need a simple id for each requirement.
* AC: With OIDC we point to the same IRI; we have similar issue with Solid-OIDC. For example, we have basic assumption that we use PKCE and Authorization Code flow, but it is not a normative statement. In my test, MUST is not reflecting exactly what the spec test says. We should adjust spec text to reflect those requirements.
  * ...: For discovery, we point to the same IRI when we point to WebID scope, and supported claims.
* AC: I have all of the code written as ESM. I'm receptive to suggestions for how to make code better.

ACTION: AC I'll share solid-oidc-tests in relevant gitter channels.

---

ACTION: eP to move PR #18 forward to be ready to merge by the end of Nov 2021

* BR: there may be additional conversations with regard to interop panel issues. Drawing lines between panels is getting complicated
* eP: interop panel has gotten an update from AuthN panel during implementation call on Wednesday
