# 2021-08-16 Solid Authentication

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authentication

## Agenda

* https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pulls
* https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues
* The OIDC issue that led to the WebID issue 3
   https://github.com/w3c/WebID/issues/3

## Present

* Aaron Coburn
* Henry Story
* Sarven Capadisli
* Nicolas Seydoux
* Barath Raghavan

## Minutes

### Repository custodial

- [TLS sessions](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/16#discussion_r681037984): perhaps "some secure means". Perhaps talking about the true requirement rather than requiring a particular protocol. If confidentiality and integrity are key, then require a mechanism that ensures those features.
- @csarven: Which issues need to be resolved for Solid-OIDC to be considered a first public working draft ?
- @acoburn: Using a tag system could help prioritizing issues

### (OIDC Client) WebID

https://github.com/w3c/WebID/issues/3

@bblfish: I am bringing this WebID issue up here, as it touches on the OIDC 
... spec being developed here.
... Let me summarizes the WebID issue. WebID spec is simple: WebID's are URIs that 
... refer to Agents, via the associated profile document that described that agent. 
... The spec states that the default serialization must be Turtle
... This restriction was made when the spec was last published to help interoperatibility.
... Now, Solid-OIDC is JSON-LD based, as it has to be interoperable with the OIDC community 
... who work with JSON mostly. 
... Solid-OIDC client identifiers are currently defined as WebID, but WebID requires the default
... format to be Turtle. 
... One option is just not call the OIDC identifier a WebID
... Another option is to change the WebID spec to require Turtle and/or JSON-LD
... It's up to asking the community
... Allowing the default to be _any_ format, means requiring support for _all_ parsers, which is quite complicated since there are [so many RDF formats available](https://github.com/co-operating-systems/Reactive-SoLiD/blob/master/src/main/scala/run/cosy/http/RDFMediaTypes.scala)
... Once discussions start in this direction (which is the preferred format), it becomes quite difficult to settle an issue
... as personal preferences come into play, where interoperability should be what is important.
... To me it seems allowing two formats by default would be Ok, as it would just make a requirement
... on clients to have to support two parsers. 
... But I don't know how much would this affect app developers. Perhaps there is no problem.
... We just have to find ask the community. 
... One can of course always come up with use cases where it is a problem.
... The question is how contrived those use cases are

@acoburn: Easiest solution is to change the name of "Client WebIDs" to something that doesn't use "WebID"

@csarven: There is an organizational issue. This is a draft that's been used for a decade. Turtle is understood to be the primary format for interop. For backwards compatibility, Turtle needs to be there. So "Turtle and JSON-LD". Changing to "JSON-LD only" would break backwards compatibility. Understand the point about "RDF", but we can't expect that any software can work with any WebID unless there are format expectations
... I publish my WebID as RDFa, do we expect that every parser out there needs to support RDFa?
... Or does a higher level spec add these requirement
... It's more about how to frame the specification so that it can be workable with other 
... specifications.
... I worry about random conforming WebIDs that are not interoperable.

@bblefish: Perhaps one could have a generic WebID and then have some local version, call it "SolID" specifically
... aimed at the Solid ecosystem. But one would have to think through the consequences of doign this.
... It is not clear what the term WebID still brings to the table if it is so generic.
... But I agree, we can't really not have turtle as a default, because that's already being used.

@nic: it is sometimes challenging to even require dereferencable identifiers
... there will be many ways to distribute and host apps
... in order to be future proof, the simplest method might be easiest
... without putting up too many barriers
... the option of not calling it a WebID

@acoburn: we want to be able to support DIDs, too (in the future), but we definitely want to continue to support WebID in Solid-OIDC

@bblfish: Generality is great, but it also makes everything else more complicated (e.g. SOAP)
... DID has great generality, but the implementation is complicated due to the large number of DIDs.
... To understand the decisions with Solid is that we have always stuck with using the most widely deployed system
... Mind you, Http-Sig is also open to DIDs, Verifiable Claims and the rest, ... 

@acoburn: It seems that consensus goes toward not calling client identifiers WebIDs, and specify that they should be dereferencable as RDF and that JSON-LD would be mandatory, but other formats would be optionally acceptable. IoW, Client Identifiers may be WebIDs, but don't have to be.

### HTTP-sig

https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/blob/main/proposals/HttpSignature.md

@bblfish: 
... I don't have anything new but should have in the next month, I hope.
... HTTP-Sig is built on "Signing HTTP Messages", an in-progress IETF working draft, at version 5, but with something like 12 versions previous to that available, 
... evolving since 2013 at least. I like this project from Manu Sporny a lot as it is so simple.
... Very simply put: it allows HTTP Headers to be signed. 
... Signatures are verified by dereferencing the Key possed in the header (a URL or DID).  
... A server may verify signatures of an HTTP requests by dereferencing the KeyID using HTTP or a DID method. 
... This would allow for per-request access control.

## Actions

* @acoburn Add a Code of Conduct reference to the README for Solid-OIDC and authentication-panel
* @acoburn and @csarven: Add tags to issues in order to prioritize issues required for first public working draft
* @barath to join https://www.w3.org/community/solid/
* @acoburn to open a PR to rephrase the spec so that Client Identifiers are no longer referred to as WebIDs
* @acoburn publish older meeting minutes

