# 2021-08-30 Solid Authentication

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authentication

## Agenda

* [Pull requests](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pulls)
* [Resource indicators](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/186)
* Scope of Solid-OIDC

## Present

* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik
* Nicolas Seydoux
* Barath Raghavan

## Minutes

Aaron: Note: we should not add elipses to the markdown in the minutes.

### [Resource indicators](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/186)

Nicolas: when using an existing OIDC provider implementation, it was found that a `resource` parameter was supported
as part of [RFC 8707 Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8707). This can be used
to indicate which token to use with a resource server. This is relevant when a single provider is used with several
different resource servers. The decentralized nature of Solid makes it hard to identify in advance which RS will be
used for each OIDC provider. Perhaps one approach would be to indicate "any Solid resource" as a hint that the intention
is to use the access token with Solid resources rather than some other, non-Solid resource.

Pavlik: interesting. Have you looked at [draft PR 18](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/18), where the IdP does
not issue access tokens but just ID tokens? With that proposed architecture, there would be an association between
an RS and an AS, but that would be independent of the Solid-OIDC spec requirements.

Nicolas: aware of this direction.

Pavlik: this suggestion might be part of a transitional state, but in the final spec, we may not want to have the
IdP issue access tokens at all. Then, the resource server defines which AS to use. Clients would identify the
authorization agent. In this structure, we wouldn't want a global access token issed by the IdP, as we have now.

Aaron: I see two question here. First, is it in scope for Solid-OIDC; and second, is it relevant for Solid?
Given what Pavlik said — that an IdP focuses only on identity — I would say that this is out-of-scope for Solid-OIDC.
However, this seems highly relevant to Solid. What the authentication panel could discuss is: _if_ an
Authorization Server supports this, we could define what that would mean for Solid.

Nicolas: possibly open a similar ticket in the Authorization panel? In that case, an RS could provide
a hint to its associated AS.

Aaron: is there an existing issue in the Authorization panel, rather than simply transferring the issue?

Pavlik: there is an interop issue here. Having a multi-authorization-protocol ecosystem adds complexity.
Do implementers need to support both protocols? That is a higher burden. By default, clients should not
have access to resources; there should be a single path for authentication/authorization.
These two topics need to be addressed together.

Nicolas: will update issue to clarify that it is out of scope for Solid-OIDC but relevant for Solid.

Pavlik: it's important to clearly define the scope of Solid-OIDC. For example, issuing access
tokens seems like it should be out of its scope.

### Scope of Solid-OIDC

Aaron: I wanted to ask Nic about this: how do client libraries handle Access Tokens vs Id Tokens?
We currently have IdPs which issue both to the client. Per OIDC, the Id Token isn't usable to access RS.
If we pursue the direction we just discussed, are there adequate protections for the Id Token, such that
it could be exchanged for an Access Token? In particular, should we talk about DPoP binding for the Id Token?

Nicolas: DPoP binding might apply to Id token as well as Access Token. In the current
[solid-client-authn-js](https://github.com/inrupt/solid-client-authn-js) implementation, the Id Token is stored
in local storage. It is only used when performing silent authentication (i.e., when a user refreshes a webpage).
The client library inpects the Id token stored by the application. Being able to exchange this Id Token for an
access token will require some changes. We currently assume that we can store the Id token in a way that
survives redirects in the browser.

Pavlik: in the current impl, the Id token is stored in local storage, but where are the access tokens stored?

Nicolas: the access token and DPoP keypair are stored inside of a closure and are not accessible
from outside the library.

Pavlik: the DPoP keypair would be recreated with every refresh of the page?

Nicolas: yes, that is correct.

Pavlik: if you refresh the page, you request a new access token with a new DPoP keypair.

Nicolas: you go through the full authorization code flow, making use of session cookies with the IdP

Pavlik: if we make this change, we would want to rely on DPoP-bound Id tokens

Nicolas: the assumption is that the user is present and permitted the initial login. The identity provider to which the
client authenticates is presented to the user. In this way, the client knows it can trust the OIDC issuer.
In order to silently authenticate, you need a mechanism to re-login through the right Identity Provider.
This makes use of the stored Id token, since the user implicitly trusts that token.
Making a change to support this proposed model isn't impossible, we'd just need a way to store state in a tamperproof way.

Pavlik: so the issuer isn't discovered via WebID? Does the user have to enter the issuer?
If there is an existing session with the IdP, can the client just fetch the issuer from that stored value?

Nicolas: what would happen if a malicious user tampers with the issuer URL?

Pavlik: because of the WebID trust model (solid:oidcIssuer), that sort of tampering would not give users any access.

Nicolas: that sounds reasonable. I would need to think through the implications. Verifying the signature of the
Id token may be unnecessary here.

Pavlik: the RS provides the security here. We may need to clarify if there are other areas where malicious
clients would tamper with data. It seems that an easy change would be for the client library to just store
the Id token in a secure location (e.g., fetch closure).

Nicolas: that _should_ be a simple change: managing the Id token inside that closure. We would need to update our documentation.

Pavlik: DPoP may not even be needed with access tokens. We would definitely need to move the DPoP binding to Id tokens.

Nicolas: DPoP binding seems like the mechanism we would need to use to prevent extfiltration attacks on Id tokens.

Pavlik: we would need to find consensus on this model: namely, that Solid-OIDC focuses only on Identity.

Nicolas: agreed. Is this a position that is shared by the Authorization panel?

Pavlik: we should discuss that. That is the case in the interop panel. The Authorization panel is focused more on
ACP/WAC at present. It is important the the requesting party can authorize clients. It seems that the interop panel
has been incorporating the model of claims pushing. This should be added to an agenda in an upcoming meeting.

Aaron: we should be careful about not breaking existing implementations and deployments all at once.
There are both technical and community considerations.

Barath: people will be upset if we just break things. We are running into it in context of Authorization.
We were discussing whether there may be some overarching best practice for Solid security.
How we adopt a new one and sunset the old one.

Aaron: we mostly want to be as transparent as possible and avoid catching people off guard.

Pavlik: we need to embed a notion of maturity in how specifications are described (working draft, recommendation...).
These labels imply that breaking changes are techically possible. We should be very clear about the stability of
what people are building against.

Aaron: if breaking changes are required at some point, the earlier they occur, the better (so now is best).
We should make sure that stakeholders are aware of this upcoming change.

## Actions

@elf-pavlik: will add this to an upcoming AuthZ panel meeting agenda
@acoburn: remove ellipses from meeting minutes PRs, then merge
@elf-pavlvik: still has inline issues to add to the spec

