# W3C Solid Community Group: Authentication Panel

* Date: 2021-10-25T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-authentication
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/authentication-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel


## Present
* Pavlik
* Aaron
* Barath


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Pavlik


### Introductions
* name

---

## Agenda

* DST nuances for next meeting Nov 1st (which timezone we will pin it to?)
* Meeting frequency
* Implicitly trusted issuers [#51](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/51)
* Overlap with authorization [#30](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/30) and [#25](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/25)

---

## Topics

### DST nuances for next meeting Nov 1st (which timezone we will pin it to?)

* Pavlik: as long as we choose one it's fine with me
* Aaron: if we pin it to European it will be 15:00 CET and 11:00 EDT

### Meeting frequency

* Aaron: Some other panels are choosing less frequent, should we consider it?
* Barath: Seems bursty
* Aaron: If we keep it every week should we sometimes keep it shorter.
* Barath: I think current schedule is fine.
* Pavlik: We should start doing agenda for next meeting ASAP, by the weekend we would know what to expect for Monday
* Aaron: Scribe could create pad for the next week.
* Pavlik: +1


### Implicitly trusted issuers

[Issue#51](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/51)

* Aaron: It points out some oversights, I put high-priority label on it.
* ...: It relates to question of implicit trust between issuer and WebId. In the case of NSS and CSS where you colocate IdP and WebID.
* Barath: Is that just those two or common mechanism?
* Aaron: It is implementation / deployment choice.
* Aaron: If you have issuer `example.com`, and your WebID is at `user.example.com`, so it's on subdomain of IdP, should there be implicit trust between the WebID and the issuer?
* Barath: What would this implicit trust be? ...
* Aaron: In Solid-OIDC spec, when RS receives access token, we look at `iss` and `webid` claims. RS needs to dereference `webid` value and find triple with `solid:oidcIssuer` predicate where WebID delegates to issuer. That would be explicit trust.
* Aaron: Currently we have MUST on dereferencing the WebID.
* Barath: You could turn it in positive and negative. On one way, it can be seen as coercion. With explicit requirement, you could also go with another IdP.
* Pavlik: this is a valid point. And we should consider whether the root domain is the same or whether the subdomain is the same. Alternatively, what about path?
* ...: two questions: should we have this implicit trust, and what combinations should be trusted?
* Barath: It raises this 'bring your own domain' portability question. This ends up relating as 'flip side' to the question. You should be able to host anywhere. It actually changes the implicit trust. If you have IdP on `example.com`, I try to assess what trust you have to `example.com`. If there is virtual hosting, it would affect the implicit trust. Whoever you use as IdP, you make a statement of trusting them.
* Aaron: Than it becomes almost an implementation constraint, more than specification issue. Once you get into handing domains for people, all kind of issues can appear.
* Pavlik: Do we have use cases explaining what motivates the implicit trust?
* Barath: For me is about the fact that it's good to call out fact of implicit trust somewhere.
* Pavlik: This brings to my mind browser-list of top level domains, since regex doesn't exist to tell difference between subdomain and domain with multi part TLD. https://publicsuffix.org/
* Aaron: In cases where a user does not trust the identity server attached to a storage/WebID service, is there a way to explicitly deny that trust?
* Aaron: I wonder if better solution is to use WebID which isn't subdomain, but that might not always be possible.
* Pavlik: what is the tradeoff between having an explicit designation of trust and the implicit trust? Where implicit is possible, IdP could add explicit triple to WebID document.
* Barath: The fewer variations, the better. Even if we call out implicit trust, it's still better to keep fewer variations.
* ...: Is the proposal that existing flow is changed?
* Aaron: This would affect RS: can they use implicit trust, or do they have to deference WebID? Also, NSS doesn't produce that triple in WebID document.
* Pavlik: Is there a reason, or was NSS just assuming that implicit trust and didn't bother to add explicit statement?
* ...: I would like to clarify it in the issue.

ACTION: Pavlik to follow up in the issue to clarify why IdP can't add the explicit triple

* Aaron: In my implementation, IdP adds that explicit triple.

### Overlap with authorization

[Issue#30](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/30) and [Issue#25](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/25)

* Pavlik: I would like to discuss one aspect of this, particularly the resource server. If we want to address the client authZ (e.g., access token) and authorization server (e.g., token exchange, UMA)
* ...: should the resulting access token be discussed in the AuthZ or AuthN panel?
* ...: if there is an AS, should we just focus on ID token in the AuthN panel?
* ...: for me, the access token should tell the identity of the user (possibly via token introspection) and info about which resources the client was authorized on their behalf.
* ...: possibly this should be defined on the solid protocol level. It is hard to identify this as only authN or authZ

* Aaron: I've mentioned it before. I'm supportive of having IdP focused on identity and deliver ID tokens. We can exchange them for Access Tokens; it would allow us to have those global access tokens. It would at least scope the access that is more conventional in OIDC world. It would be departure from how Solid currently works. Currently IdP produces access token which can be used with all those RSs. If we narrow Solid-OIDC, we could make access tokens as out of scope for the specification. If we want to encourage people to just to exchange those ID tokens, it would be a shift.

* Pavlik: previously, the POP tokens were produced by clients
* ...: the Solid-OIDC specification hasn't been marked as CR
* ...: there are working implementations, but until this is CR, we shouldn't constrain ourselves

* Aaron: I just want to make sure to argue this point. Wherever there is breaking change, some people will not like that.

* Pavlik: verifying the identity of a client relies on the IdP. When we perform the redirect, we verify that the `redirect_uri` is the same as is defined in the client identifier. Are there other mechanisms to consider? This value is relied on by authZ mechanism.
* ...: we are using that identity to authenticate the client
* ...: in that sense, the IdP is responsible for identifying both the user and client
* ...: or is there another mechanism for providing the identity of the client?
* ...: in the authZ/interop panels, we are relying on this behavior, but should the authZ system independently verify the client?

* Barath: whould would independent verification imply?

* Pavlik: we currently use a redirect by the IdP, but there could be another redirect, independent of the OIDC redirect.

* Aaron: I don't think OIDC mechanism has to be exclusive in how client is identified. Some kind of redirect flow could be part of that.

* Pavlik: in interop panel, the authorization agent is defined as a trusted entity for handling authorization. This involves a redirection for authorizing the client. For impls that combine the authorization server and identity server, there could be a single redirect.
* ...: this sort of combination will be implementing this structure starting in early 2022
* ...: with a single redirect, this is both the IdP and authorization agent performing this redirect and therefore making this client identity claim.
* ...: this will need to be clarified further

* Aaron: Client identifier mechanism is fairly new addition to solid. First implementation was only few months ago. It is recognized that it is important part of solid but there might be other ways of achieving it.

* Pavlik: what is the purpose of verifying client identity in Solid-OIDC?  I see it used for authZ, where else do we see it used?

* Aaron: Let's imagine that you have a storage with different types of information. Photos, medical data, financial data, etc. As owner you have access to all that data. If you use malicious or untrusted client, you want to restrict what this client can do. That said, Solid-OIDC defines it only before we have better way of defining it. WAC was using origin header which has its own problems. GNAP will come along eventually. What happens then if we tie everything to OIDC? I don't think those mechanisms need to be exclusive. 

* Pavlik: the interop panel is trying to address exactly this issue of partitioning. The client identity seems mostly to authorize the client, which connects to authorization.
* ...: to be continued next week with some clear questions to be discussed.

