# W3C Solid Community Group: Authentication Panel

* Date: 2021-11-08T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-authentication
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/authentication-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel


## Present
* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik
* Nic AS
* Barath R
* Pete Edwards (last part only)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn
* Nicolas

---

## Agenda

* [Open Pull Requests](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pulls)
* [Clarifying specific areas of overlap with AuthZ #30](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/30)
* [Test Suite](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/22)


---

## Topics

### Open Pull Requests

https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pulls

* AC: [Implicit trusted issuer](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/52) still isn't ready to merge
* eP: [comments](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/52#issuecomment-958994903) have been added to the related issues
* ...: also following up on [non-public WebID](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/51#issuecomment-958999030) profile document

### Clarifying specific areas of overlap with AuthZ

https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/30

* eP: The main topic relates to the authorization token. This is traditionally based on a set of requested scopes. Then, the authorization server can issue a token with these scopes. Alternatively, this is handled via token introspection. With OAuth 2.0, this interaction is mostly about authorization, not authentication.
* ...: Authorization Panel may also need to address this. Likewise for the Interop Panel, regarding what a user can access. A discovery mechanism is related. For example, a client cannot discover data that it cannot access.
* ...: The Authorization Spec will describe more about the structure of authorization tokens. For the Solid-OIDC spec, there are two main responsibilities: Identifying the agent (user) and identifying the client (app)
* ...: Where it is less clear, when we talk about a resource server, we just want to assume that there is an authZ server connected to that RS
* ...: the WWW-Authenticate header in the response is part of that interaction
* ...: the RS would need to verify the equivalent of OAuth2 scopes
* ...: It would be out of scope for Solid-OIDC to define this interaction between RS and AS
* ... : OP needs to verify the identity of the client. Examples include static registration, client identification document...
* ...: How the RS verifies the authenticity of the client would come from that AS
* ...: How to bind the ID token to DPoP
* ...: outside of that should be left to the authorization spec
* ...: where coordination between the two is needed is related to the OpenID provider and what is authorized
* ...: needs to be a way for a server to implement both AuthN and AuthZ as a single party. For instance, the redirect flow could be combined (though we may be getting a bit ahead of ourselves)
* ...: A good starting point may be agreeing that there is an authorization server associated with the resource server
* ...: Any coordination between RS and AS would be out of scope for Solid-OIDC
* AC: +1
* BR: in favor, but may not have followed all details
* NAS: +1
* eP: if we have an AS associated with the RS, then Solid-OIDC doesn't get into the middle of the flow of RS-AS.
* BR: you are just trying to draw the lines between which entity is responsible for which things
* eP: that is correct. The RS just needs to ensure that the agent has been authenticated by the AS
* AC: This is moving away from the current way most Solid servers work. How should we consider backwards compatibility in the case when the the RS and AS are one and the same?
* eP: for backwards compatibility, it would require that the RS supports as_uri
* ...: also, the RS needs to use WWW-Authenticate
* ...: if the AS uses DPoP, we may not need to require DPoP by the RS
* ...: opaque access tokens might work
* ...: just the as_uri would be all that is needed for backwards compatibility
* ...: there are also use cases where identity is not needed, for example, with VCs. Though there is possibly still the need to authenticate the client
* ...: In those cases, the identity of the user is not important. For example, UMA claims-pushing
* AC: one addition about UMA: it has a mechanism to declare which claims may be pushed (e.g., VC, ID token). There are other ways of doing so, but UMA provides an approach.
* eP: yes, and the AS gives this more flexibility. An ID token may not require one of these claims. Current Solid-OIDC assumes that identity-based access is required.
* AC: Do you have an opinion about scopes, in particular in the WWW-Authenticate header?
* eP: do you mean whether the RS should communicate the scope parameter?
* AC: Yes
* AC: Agreed, such scopes may belong more to the AuthZ spec than to the AuthN spec. However, there is a lot of overlap between specs there. Should Solid-OIDC mention this at least?
* eP: we should only need to say that WWW-Authenticate is the mechanism to discover how an entity can get access to a resource.
* AC: This would make the specification stronger, and simpler, with the caveat that we should be careful about how to redirect implementers to additional AuthZ specifications without being too overwhelming to discover how to approach these scopes.
* eP: one issue is we then depend on the authorization spec to define that. The ecosystem would need the authorization spec as a MUST.
* AC: What would be the next specs for the Solid-OIDC spec ?
* eP: next steps would be to introduce the authorization server. E.g., www-authenticate `as_uri`
* ...: remove access token
* ...: bind DPoP token to ID token
* ...: describe claims pushing, `id_token` used as claim
* AC: We'll want to be communicate clearly to the wider Solid community what these changes entail, and what path should be followed for transition.
* eP: I will invite a CSS representative to make sure they are aware of this. Defining this as_uri should be fairly simple. Token introspection should be able to occur internally
* ...: it would be good to describe these changes in a pull request to Solid-OIDC.
* NAS: we will also need to update the client libraries. The client-authn libraries do not support UMA. It also assumes that the RS supports the access tokens from an IdP.
* ...: We will want to make sure there is client support before asking servers to change
* eP: as a maintainer of a client library, how do you see this transition period? Do you need clear documentation of these changes?
* NAS: it is a bit early to asses the impact. It isn't too problematic to have the two live side-by-side. An RS can advertise this capability. The transition period is more for the client libraries to adapt
* eP: if both the client and server have a transition period, then there is a path for both to move forward
* ...: there was discussion from a few weeks ago about keeping access tokens in a closure, so it might also be possible to store the ID token like that
* NAS: there are some things to double-check there. For refresh, we rely on the storage of an ID token stored in local storage.
* eP: there is an open PR that starts this (??? add URL). What would be the best workflow
* AC: one first step might be to describe the DPoP-bound ID token
* eP: with access tokens, we have a notion of refreshing. how will that work with ID tokens?
* NAS: what would be the expected lifetime of an ID token? Do we expect that the lifespan would be longer lived?
* AC: It should be short-lived too, because it you can trade the ID token for an access token, then there is no difference between having a long-lived AT and a long-lived ID Token
* eP: we don't currently have a way to revoke ID tokens. In practice, is this hours or minutes?
* NAS: ten minutes? also for ID tokens
* AC: ESS expires tokens after 30min, CSS after 1 hour, NSS after 2 weeks
* Barath: is there need to have standard time?
* AC: There is no need for a standard lifespan as long as there is a shared convention to refresh them. The industry convension is that they are short-lived (an hour or less). The more sensitive the context is, the shorter the lifespan
* BR: could we customize this in real-time? You could imagine that in offline/partitioned operation, you might want to change that operation time. For instance, if you know in advance that you can't refresh
* AC: An approach would be to build up state locally and then flush that state to the RS once re-authenticated.
* eP: let's continue to flesh this out over the week and move to the next topic.

ACTION: eP: create issue about refreshing an expired ID token

### Test Suite

https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/22

* AC: Some progress has been made. A browser-based static webapp is available, where you specify the target Solid-OIDC issuer, and which runs a set of tests covering parts of the OAuth2.0, OpenID and Solid-OIDC specs.
* ...: No distinction between which spec is tested by which test.
* ...: No distinction between MAY and MUST
* ...: The test report is generated incrementally, and the question of mainting state between the requesuts is an issue.
* ...: Approaches with iframes and popups (still working out the details) ...
* ...: The individual tests are not as much of an issue as maintaining the authenticated session.
* PE: What is the state of automation
* AC: For automation, `client_credentials` are great, but they are not required by the spec. This creates a tension between the spec, which only requires
* ...: `authorization_code` flow, and tests that would require the `client_credentials`, which is why brower-based tests are good.
* PE: What kinds of interaction is required by a user?
* AC: The manual steps are authentication, and specifying the OIDC provider under test. How the user does authenticate to the OP is out of scope of the spec, so no specific assumptions can be made there.
* AC: What we may want to do is
* ...: For the tests harness, a specific authentication flow is expected. The browser-based tests could be rewritten easily to fit into these harnesses.
* ...: The things that are mostly tested are:
* ...: - Is discovery data accurate
* ...: - What is present in the access token
* ...: - The surrounding context (e.g. PKCE, DPoP) is well supported
* PE: It should be possible to integrate those tests with the existing harness
* AC: One thing that appeared when writing these tests is that the Solid spec is richly annotated with markup indicating the requirements. That is not the case as much in the Solid-OIDC specification: MUSTs are not annotated, individual requirements are not individually identifiable (anchors are only on section titles)
* eP: I will start adding some markup with some Turtle text
* PE: Once you have that RDF, I can check that it aligns with what we use in the Solid Protocol specification
* eP: Question about the annotations. The spec namespace contains a notion of `server`. The spec could define specific vocab to introduce subjects in the requirement triples.
* PE: Sarven would appreciate the feedback.
* eP: The notion of client/server are too broad, compared to issuer/client for instance.
* AC: The browser-based tests should be presentable next week.

